# Yow

Toolbox for Node. Contains stuff you only wished was there in the first place.

## Installation

	npm install yow --save

## Methods

### General Purpose

	var sprintf = require('yow/sprintf');
	var extend = require('yow/extend');

- **sprintf(args)**        - Just as you would expect. Uses the npm module 'sprintf-js'.
- **extend(args)**         - Again, just as you would expect. Uses the npm module 'extend'.


### File System

	var mkdir = require('yow/fs').mkdir;
	var mkpath = require('yow/fs').mkpath;
	var fileExists = require('yow/fs').fileExists;
	var readJSON = require('yow/fs').readJSON;
	var writeJSON = require('yow/fs').writeJSON;

- **mkdir(path)**                 - Creates the directory you specify.
- **mkpath(path)**                - Creates the directory you specify. It will create multiple directories if they do not exit.
- **fileExists(path)**            - Nothing fancy, it just returns true/false.
- **readJSON(fileName)**          - Reads a JSON file and returns the contents.
- **writeJSON(fileName, object)** - Writes an object to a JSON file.

### Type Checks

	var isType = require('yow/is').isType;
	var isArray = require('yow/is').isArray;
	var isNumber = require('yow/is').isNumber;
	var isString = require('yow/is').isString;
	var isDate = require('yow/is').isDate;
	var isFunction = require('yow/is').isFunction;
	var isObject = require('yow/is').isObject;
	var isInteger = require('yow/is').isInteger;
	var isFloat = require('yow/is').isFloat;

- **isType(object, type)**  - Returns true/false if typeof equals 'type'.
- **isArray(object)**       - Is object an array?
- **isNumber(object)**      - Is object a JavaScript **Number** object?
- **isString(object)**      - Is object a **String** object?
- **isDate(object)**        - Is object a **Date** object?
- **isFunction(object)**    - Is object a **function** object?
- **isObject(object)**      - Is object an object? BTW **null** is not an object.
- **isInteger(object)**     - Is object an integer?
- **isFloat(object)**       - Is object a float?

### Random

	var random = require('yow/random');

- **random()**              - Returns Math.random().
- **random(integer)**       - Returns a random number from 0 to the integer specified (exclusive).
- **random(min, max)**      - Returns a random number from min to max (inclusive).
- **random(array)**         - Returns a randomly chosen object in the specified array.
- **random(object)**        - Returns a randomly chosen object property.

Also available as require('yow/random')

### Range

	var range = require('yow/range');

- **range(min, max, step)** - Returns an range array generated by **min**, **max**, and **step**.

### Logging

	var logs = require('yow/logs');

- **logs.prefix(prefix)**    - Prefix all logs with the specified prefix. This may be a function or a string expression.
                              Default is the current date/time.
- **logs.redirect(file)**    - Redirects all logging to the specified file. If not specified, a log file with the current
                              date/time will be created.  


### Queue

	var Queue = require('yow/queue');
	var queue = new Queue();

- **queue.enqueue(promise)** - Enqueues a promise into an array for execution
- **queue.dequeue()** - Returns a new promise object and resolves when the queue has been executed.


### Timer

	var Timer = require('yow/timer');
	var timer = new Timer();

- **timer.SetTimer(delay, fn)** - Executes the specified function **fn** after a delay.
	Previously set timers are cancelled.

- **timer.cancel()** - Cancels the timer.
